I am done, so
let's start with a general Q&A.
Cuz I know there's a lot of questions
that are in the channel as well.
>> Do you think that there's still a job
market for frontend specialists or
are companies more interested
in full stack engineers?
>> There will always be a job market for
specialists of any kind.
I think this idea,
like we said about the whole full stack
thing being kind of treated as mythical.
There's a big difference between
generalist and full stack, being good at
different, you could be a back end and
be understanding of multiple co languages.
You could be backend and be C# and go.
But it's a little different than
I know the entire stack entirety.
So being a full stack generalist,
meaningful stack specialist
is still very much in demand.
Being a specialist of any type is
in demand whether it's frontend,
backend, DevOps,
cloud native, iOS, mobile,
being a specialist is
always gonna be in demand.
>> Another question.
This is about personal websites.
Do you feel very creative websites work
with a lot of animations or a game?
Do you recommend going super creative and
fancy or making it simple and
focused on actual content that
I want to present about myself?
>> As a junior,
I do recommend the content-focused
ones versus the very
fancy ones as a junior.
Cuz your first focus is getting that role.
I tend to see those more fancy ones for
people that have already made a name for
themselves or trying to make
a much bigger name for themselves.
And the portfolio is the show.
So I don't recommend but as a junior,
you don't want it to be like that,
especially when you're
trying to find a job.
And you're also risking using technologies
that might break one day out of nowhere.
I'm not a big fan of the super
phaser five WebGL type
websites cuz you never
know what's gonna happen.
>> My question is, for finding these
different open source opportunities,
a lot of the times when I've been
reviewing some of the feature and
pull requests and that kind of thing.
A lot of them are a little
bit too complex for
myself as a beginner to really jump
into and get into the weeds with.
How do I identify the right
opportunities and the right things where
it's not something where
something's deceptively simple.
And then I end up wasting a whole bunch
of time trying to do something that's
probably outside of my skill set.
>> I have one better.
What's stopping you from reaching out to
whoever made that ticket or that issue and
see if they could either walk you through
the issue that they're having, or B,
pair with you on an issue
that you're having.
So that way you could be the driver,
they can be the I
don't know what y'all call
it in the civilian terms,
we call it a,
shooter-spotter in Vets Who Code.
Because well, we're comfortable with those
terms, but I guess on a civilian term,
you guys call it driver-
>> Co-pilot.
>> Driver navigator,.
>> Navigator, who's in that?
Who uses a navigator?
Everybody uses a Siri now, right?
All right, cool, driver navigator, so-
>> Look at the screen cuz the other person
needs to keep their eyes on the road.
>> No one's doing that [LAUGH].
Yeah, all right, so
driver navigator, right?
So since you're a junior, you're driving
while the senior person is navigating.
And that way you're understanding the
problems that this open source issue has,
while also taking the opportunity
to learn more than coding,
hard skill coding opportunity
with someone else.
So that's what I would recommend first,
before trying to identify.
Instead of trying to identify a problem
you can do on your own, try identify
an opportunity to make it solve two
to three birds with one stone, right?
Now you solved collaboration, you're
pairing, you're learning something new,
someone is getting,
you're networking, right?
You have all these things
now that you just solved.
Yes, sir.
>> So I was wondering about there's
constantly new hot technology
that's coming out.
Like you were saying, Rust is a big new
thing that's supposed to kind of take
over according to Primeagen, right?
>> Yeah.
>> There's things like Svelte or Tailwind,
and they're really hot on Twitter,
but there's not much of a job market for
those skills yet.
Is there a way to kind of
differentiate what's worth
learning skill-wise versus
what's just the talk?
>> Ignore the noise.
There used to be a term
called signal versus noise.
And I'm always looking for
the signal versus the noise so
while everybody's on Twitter
talking about something exciting,
I'm gonna pull up the exciting
they're looking at.
I'm either gonna research it on
LinkedIn or Indeed or somewhere, and
I'm gonna look at the market.
And if the market is not
reflecting what the excitement
on the Twitters are saying,
I'm old, it's the Twitters now,
I'm not going to pay any
attention to what they say, right?
>> So unless you're seeing
30,000 open positions for Rust.
>> Not even 30,000, I'm talking closer to
maybe, I'll just do a national search and
I saw 30,000 and wouldn't even be worth
coming having a conversation for it.
Because 50 states,
how many engineering jobs?
Last time I checked,
there's 17 million engineering jobs
opening United States of America.
So 30,000 jobs of a language
on a national search,
I wouldn't even consider that for
a conversation.
I'm looking at it has to have
at least anywhere from 75 to 100
before I'm starting to talk
to my troops about it ,right?
So it was a .NET role, .NET,
that's a good one to go.
React, Node, if it was Python with Flask,
or maybe Python with Django.
We were talking about Angular,
we were talking about I
would do that even with View,
I don't see enough data to
make me want to trust giving
people you should learn view.
Like you said, if someone asked me about
Java, I'd be like, yes, learn Java.
Cuz Java's been around forever and
pretty much.
If you have a hospital in your town,
that means you have Java.
So that means there's probably people
that have gone in other companies and
implemented Java everywhere, right?
Java's a great language to learn.
It has a great ecosystem with main impact
just all the other stuff to learn, right.
That's something that the data shows,
right?
You have a college educational place or
a hospital that's usually built around
the tech sector ecosystem of your city.
You're gonna have C# and Java.
So those are two really trustworthy
backends for you to go towards, right?
Whereas we were talking,
like I said, unfortunately, Go and
Rust aren't up there yet when it comes to,
okay, what's the trustworthiness of.
I'm talking to someone who has two
kids and they're putting all their
energy in learning how to code for
a better life for their kids.
Am I gonna recommend for
them learn Go or Rust?
And I couldn't do that in good faith,
versus C#, .NET, and
Java with Spring Boot.
Yeah, I can do that.
Yeah, you should absolutely
learn that your chances
of getting a job is much higher, so.
>> So for someone changing industries,
they don't have a good sense
of what are the options.
What are some indicators for
the new person to see that I
should be pursuing backend,
I should be pursuing APIs.
>> I don't look at it like that,
which you should be pursuing.
First, you should be doing
a research to see where is
the most lucrative for your skill level.
You're going to be entry level, you should
know where entry level jobs are like.
For instance, the chances of going
entry level without any, zero technical
experience anywhere in a cloud role or
something, that's very small.
Whereas if you have experience in
something, something some way, shape, or
form of building in scripting or
anything, your chances go up higher.
But it's usually a mid tier job, right?
Versus saying, I want to go backend and
I want to go frontend.
Okay, those both have entry level roles.
But now we're talking about DevOps,
for instance.
When you talk about DevOps,
that's a slightly more senior role,
than entry level and
then when it comes to juniors, right?
So that's like, okay,
your chances are gonna go low.
So that's where we have to have
those type of conversations,
not like which part do we really need?
All right, no, which is the best chances,
and then we go off which part, right?
API design is a part of backend, right?
So you have to know, backend language
in order to build APIs, right?
You have to know Python.
And you could do it with Python or
you could just do Python Flask, right?
You have to do these to
be able to build an API.
You just can't do that solo
by itself whereas just
talking about API design by itself,
that means what?
Anybody can do that.
So, I mean, not anybody can do that but
anybody with any backend
conversation can do that.
So you gotta learn backend first, right?
You wanna do DevOps, you should probably
learn a few backend languages, right?
Because you need to learn about build
pipelines and you probably should learn
a lease AWS or Azure or
maybe a little bit of both, right.
And then from there you need to
learn how to be able to connect
a website to build pipelines
from one of those to GitHub and
so that people can see the builds and
things based upon that.
It's a deeper conversation than just,
hey, where do I learn, where do I start?
And that's why you should research it,
right?
And do informationals, ask people,
look for people in your community.
It's not like how it was
when I was growing up
where all the people that know
how to code were hidden, right?
I didn't even know the coding was
a job till I was like 26, 27.
I just thought people got an LLC and
a website popped up.
I was like, okay, that's cool.
Now I know the difference,
I know the facts, right?
No, people built these things, right?
So like they're not hidden anymore.
So have them do that research to
figure out which path to go once
they get beyond frontend or
backend, right?
What languages should you learn,
that's more important than whether
you should go frontend and backend.
All right,
you can't go wrong with JavaScript.
But which jobs are hiring in your area,
in your region, Angular or React.
Angular used to be very much
a higher tier framework if
you're in hospitals,
colleges in your city,
versus if you're in a more start-up
friendly city, React was, right?
If you're in a city that isn't a tech hub,
but has tech jobs,
then you're gonna have,
like I said, Java Spring Boot.
You're gonna have C# and .NET, and you
might have PHP as to prevalent backends.
So even if you're backend,
you might not want to be like backend
learning TypeScript and Node.
You want to be one of the other ones,
right?
So that's how you should be looking at it,
and framing it, and thinking of it.